# Research-Paper-COVID-Effects-On-NBA-Player-Performance

In March of 2020, due to a worldwide pandemic caused by COVID-19, all national sporting events had to be halted. One of the sports organizations that had to be halted indefinitely was the National Basketball Association(NBA) as the COVID-19 virus posed a huge risk to all people involved in every team that is part of the NBA family as the sport is high contact and played in an enclosed space. In July the NBA resumed its season in the Bubble -  the isolation zone at Walt Disney World in Florida that was used to protect its players in the final few games of the regular season and the playoffs. This was something that players had never experienced in their NBA career, as they were always surrounded by an audience. 

I collected the data from a free online source and then chose to surround my study around +/- which allows me to adequately study player performance. The +/- statistic is a measure of the point differential when players are in and out of a game. It is calculated by taking the difference in the score when the player enters the game and subtracting it from the score when the player exits the game. After collecting the data and organizing into dataframes I performed statistical analyses on the data and used Python to visualize the data in different ways. 

The first aim of this study is to compare game performances of All-Star and Non All-Star players pre and post NBA Bubble and describe how the absence of an audience played a huge role in those results. We see that the absence of an audience resulted in a boom in Non All-Star player performances and a decline in All-Star player performances. We also see that the boom in Non All-Star players is significant and the decline in All-Star players is not significant. Some limitations of the study are that variables such as the impact of isolation on mental health, no home/away court advantage/disadvantage on player performance, and schedule congestion were not taken into account for having an impact on player performance in the Bubble.

Link to the full research paper - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aAHGzaEGr9G-222CrdHgVuLy22IstCeLWS_3fqfsJTE/edit?usp=sharing
